
Problem 1. Access the CSV file retailsales.csv. This data file reports the percentage change in total domestic retail sales and the percentage change in the U.S. GDP over a ten-year period. (from A.C. Nielsens Facts, Figures and the Future. Feb. 2003).

1(a) Perform a regression of percent chginRetailSales using percent chginGDP as the independent variable.

1(b) Write the estimated regression equation.

1(c) Use the regression to estimate how much a one percentage point increase in GDP will affect retail sales.

1(d)  Provide a 95% confidence interval for your estimate in part
1(c).

1(e) Provide a 90% confidence interval for your estimate in part
1(c).

1(f) Can you reject the null hypothesis that the true coefficient multiplying percent chginGDP is zero (at 5% significance)?

Problem 2. Use the regression from problem 1.

2(a) Predict the percent chginRetailSales in a year where the GDP increases by 3.0%.

2(b) Provide a 95% prediction interval for your estimate.

2(c) Provide a 98% prediction interval for your estimate.

2(d) Using the same prediction, estimate the probability that the percent chginRetailSales will be greater than 8.5.

2(e) Overall how would you rate the quality of this regression? Justify your answer.

Problem 3. Access the CSV file salaries.csv. These data represent the salaries of 41 workers at a major corporation based on the number of years employed with the company.

3(a) Perform a regression of Salary vs. Years Experience.

3(b) Write out the estimated regression equation.

3(c) Use the regression to estimate the effect of one additional
year of work experience at the company on a workers salary.

3(d) Provide a 95% confidence interval for your estimate in part 3(c).

3(e) Provide a 99% confidence interval for your estimate in part 3(c).

3(f) [10 points]. Can you reject the null hypothesis that the true coefficient is zero (at 5% significance)?

Problem 4. Use the regression from problem 3.

4(a) Predict the salary of a worker with nine years of experience
at the company.

4(b) Provide a 95% prediction interval for your estimate.

4(c) Provide a 75% prediction interval for your estimate.

4(d) Provide an interval that you are 90% confident contains the
true mean salary of workers with nine years of experience.

4(e) How confident can we be that work experience is significantly related to salary?

Problem 5. Access the CSV file eurodata.csv, which contains information
from the Statistical Annex of the European Economy, 2003. The dataset consists
of 42 years worth of wage rate growth and unemployment rates for 10 countries
in Europe. Multinational corporations might be interested in studying how
unemployment impacts the growth in wages for some or all of these 10 countries.

5(a) Perform a regression of wage growth vs. unemployment in
Belgium (BE). Do the same for Denmark (DK).

5(b) Write both estimated regression equations.

5(c) How does a one percentage point increase in unemployment
relate to the growth rate of wages in each country?

5(d) Provide a 95% confidence interval for the coefficient multi-
plying unemployment for each country.

5(e) Predict the growth rate in wages for each country in a year
that has 3% unemployment.

5(f) Provide a 90% prediction interval for your prediction from
part 5(e).